okay,
goes now we can have a look at entry in dates on times no.
Everyone knows how to enter a date into Excel on s.
Today is Thursday the 30th of July.
I'm just going to go ahead inside 30 slash seven on when they center,
you can see that excels automatically recognize that as a date and chosen its default date
formatting options.
So it actually saves 30 Dash Jewell now,
because we want to use a week ending rather than the than the actual date.
Unless today happens to be a Friday and we're choosing our week end as a Friday,
what we're gonna have to do is do some calculations to work out what it is now.
We could use Excel to do that,
or we could just add it up in our head.
So if I didn't know that July had 31 days and have to recite the poem,
30 days has September,
April,
June and November all the rest of 31 all that kind of stuff.
But there's a quicker way to do this by changing the format to a custom formatting excel so
you can instantly say,
actually,
30th of July is a Thursday s.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to right click on here on this cell on.
We're going to choose format cells.
Now.
I'm just gonna drag down into shot just there right now.
What you can see,
the moments have look at date is that we have a variety of different dates available to us
so we could see this and it would say,
30th of the seventh.
We could say this,
and it would say,
30th or 30 July 2015 sonar so forth all the way down.
But what we're gonna do is we're gonna allow own custom.
So let's just click on the custom,
man.
We see we have,
ah,
a bunch of different ways of format in this,
and it's very simple.
To change it or we're going to do is highlight the type section just here and delete.
Now we can see that the sample sales for 2 to 15 which probably doesn't mean much to at the
moment.
But we're going to cover that in a lecture in this section.
Right?
So what we want to do to see the if we wanted to see 30 jaw or 30 07 2015 we would type D D
,
which gives us the date we could type an M and that would say 07 begin to type space and
hit y y so that we'd have 37 15 or if we wanted to dash in between we would say D d dash M
M dash y Y,
and then we can see 30-7 Dash 15 in our sample window.
But if we hit three days,
we can see that instantly.
It goes to Thursday so that we can say Thursday hitter space d d the 30th on.
Then we come on to the months now if we hear em,
we get one digit.
If we eat em em,
it will say 07 because July is the seventh month.
If we hit 1/3 M,
we can see that it will actually change it to say job eso Let's say let's keep it like that
.
So let's say 30th Thursday,
30th jaw,
let's say yeah,
yeah,
so they go.
That's how we build a custom formats.
So we say D d d space that will tell us the day of the week.
Dee Dee tells us the date on and M shows us the month in a shortened format as a word
rather than the number on 15 is the year.
So let's just hit.
Enter now that's much simpler to do.
So no,
If it's a Thursday,
I can say that.
Look,
just type 30th of July and that's a Thursday and actually wanted to be a Friday.
So it's just add 12 so they go can instantly see that the 31st of July is a Friday because
tell the cell tells me that's on.
Obviously,
today we can work out very quickly every day of the week s.
So if we said let's have a look at the 25th of December 2006 or 2016 we can see the
Christmas next year falls on Sunday.
They know sneezy,
so we want the end of the week.
So 37th 215 they go.
So that's how you do a custom format for your dates now.
Time Very,
very similar notes.
Some people mistakenly entered time as a decimal,
so they said 9 30 There was a 9.5 that's nine have nine hours on behalf on our besides,
but all times are separated with colon.
So if we're going to start our day at nine o'clock,
we'll type nine Coolum 00 and hit.
Enter.
Now,
if we wanted to display the seconds to we could also have a look.
A custom format for that.
So again,
we're gonna choose format cells.
We're gonna have a look at the customer.
We can see here that we have hh h Cole on M m on from our sample.
That will give us nine oclock in the morning.
If we wanted to add seconds,
we could just come up to here.
Hit the colon.
Hit second seconds hit,
Enter.
And there you can see that our entry,
although we haven't actually changed the entry will be formatted a zero knowing coal on
nine hours 000 minutes.
Colon and 000 seconds.
Okay,
so that's how you create a custom format.
Let me just go back and choose hours,
hours,
minutes,
minutes because we're not done interested in seconds.
Okay,
let's let's populate some data.
Just so I retain that formatting,
I'm just gonna copy those cells over and then change the Times.
So Monday we're going to start at nine o'clock on.
We'll have lunch at midday.
We're gonna have half of their was lunch.
So we're going to come back at 12.
30 on.
We're gonna finish it.
Five cause five is a fantastic time to finish work.
I'm just going to copy those down.
So there you go.
We've managed to custom for matter of times,
and we've custom formatted every day.
So we have a bunch of data that we can play with.
OK.
And the next let's we're gonna have a look at Do some simple calculations on time.
Okay,
So you in the next lecture.